We will now go over the idea behind regression dis continuity.
So to motivate our discussion of aggression.
Dis continuity.
Let's suppose that we want to measure the effect of adding
subtitles to a course, and in particular, we might expect
that adding non English subtitles to a course will increase
the number of people enrolled in the course because we
will make the material more accessible.
And so the first question is, Can we run in a B test
or a simple experiment?
And the answer is no, because it's difficult to randomly give
some learners access the subtitles given product limitation.
So we can't do random ization on whether subtitles that are
available or not.
And then another question is, can we use controlled
aggression?
The technique we covered in the previous section?
Well, the problem is there are un observable
that we don't have great proxies for, like course popularity.
And so therefore, our progression models controlled
aggression would suffer from omitted variable bias.
And then we therefore wouldn't be able to measure the causal
impact of Exxon.
Why? We're having subtitles on the number of enrollments.
And of course, and so then another question is what
about a natural experiment.
Well, the answer is yes, because it turns out that courses
are advertised as being available in a language Onley when
those courses have at least 80% of the materials subtitled
in a particular language.
And so this 80% threshold of whether subtitles are available
and or not is pretty arbitrary.
And so therefore, courses that have slightly less
than 80% subtitles should be pretty similar to courses
that have slightly more than 80% subtitles.
And we can therefore used the above and below 80% as a random
ization point to kind of split our data into two samples
and then recover some of the A B test assumptions.
And so what we're going to do is we're going to run
a progression.
Dis continuity what they cut off point of 80% where why
Variable is going to be revenue or enrollments.
And our X variable is going to be the percent of the course
that its subtitle there percent of materials in a course
that air subtitled in a particular language.
And so here's a graph that shows everything you will need
to know about regression, dis continuity and so there's a lot
of information here, and so let's kind of unpack it.
But the central idea in regression dis continuity is
that we want to focus on our randomized cut off point.
So, in our case, the percent of a course that is subtitled
and having a regression discontinuity of 80% and this cut off
point can be thought of as a local randomized experiment
that splits your data into two samples.
And we're going to therefore treat our data as two groups
in a B test where one group is called the Control, which is
prior to the cut off for Dis Continuity Point.
And another group is going to be the treatment, which is
the post cut off group.
And then we're What we're going to do is we're going to fit
two separate regression lines, one before the cut off
and one after the cut off using the same model.
And then the way we're going to kind of fifties to regression
lines is we're going tohave the sort of specifications
that you can see here.
So we're gonna take our y variable on.
We're going to regress it on an intercept.
The X variable of interest.
And then we're going to regress it on whether a new indicator
for whether the X variable is above or below the cut off
for that particular observation.
And then we're gonna add on an interaction term between our X
variable of interest and an indicator
for whether that observation is above or below the cut off
in terms of its X value.
And then what you'll see here is that supposing we are
below the cut off point.
And so there are indicators air all zero.
And then these two terms drop out, and then our regression
model is just going to be y equals r intercept plus B
one times the x coefficient.
And then the slope here is going to be be one on Lee.
So we have a regression line sort of prior to the cut off
with an intercept of zero and a slope of the one.
And then we're going to look at what the regression line
would be if we fit it after the cut off and after the cut off.
These indicators are both value of one, so we have the same
terms as before.
Except now we have two additional terms of be, too.
So it's sort of a new intercept of B zero, um, kind of plus B
two. And then we have a another slope term of B three times
Act. So we have a sort of combined slope term of B one plus B
three, and so then we can see that essentially that before
and after the cut off, we have these two separate regression
lines. And then, if what we kind of do is compare sore for
courses or observations that are kind of just below in just
above the cut off, we compare where they are on the two
regression lines and take a difference between the two
regression lines.
We'll see that the difference in the two regression lines
because the slopes are going to be very close to one another,
is going to be approximately the kind of intercept at the cut
off point.
And you can think of this intercept at the Cup of Point as
the causal impact because it's the difference in the two
regression lines, pre and post the cut off.
And remember, because we have this cut off that sort of
randomly assigned, we can think of it as randomly dividing
our sample into two groups.
And so what we're doing is we're essentially comparing the
averages near the cut off for observations that are close by
and comparing the difference in the the sort of average y
value between those two groups of observations and the
central idea behind this, um, pre and post splitting.
Is that the priest splitting?
And so the progression line prior to the cut off is serving
as a counterfactual or what we would observe if there was no
impact at the dis continuity point.
And so this allows us to kind of back out what the causal in
causal impact is of Exxon.
Why using this regression?
Discontinuity points.
And so the regression discontinuity design has a couple
assumptions.
The first assumption, which is the most critical one, is that
the sample is similar above and below the cut off.
And we need this to be true because this ensures that the cut
off point is acting as kind of being randomly assigned and
therefore splitting our sample into two groups and recovering
some of the A B test assumptions.
So, as an example, we would need that we would need courses
below and above the 80% subtitle threshold to be similar to
one another and so that the discontinuity point is
effectively randomize ing things.
And so there are a couple ways we can check for whether this
assumption is true or not.
The first is that thesis sample sizes of our group.
So the number of observations below the cut off and above the
coop should be roughly the same because there's sort of no,
um, selection on whether, of course, is below 80% or above.
80% is just kind of randomly assigned.
And then the second way thio check it is that the sample just
below and above the cut off, should be similar on observable
zor confounding variables.
So these air other variables that might affect the y variable
of interest.
And if our sort of cut off point is actually randomly
assigned that we shouldn't see any relationship between these
confound er's and where an observation is in terms of below
the cut off or above the cut off.
And then the second assumption we need is that there are no
confounding discontinuities.
So in our example for subtitles, we need to assume that
advertising whether courses available or not in a particular
language is the Onley differentiator between courses at a 70%
subtitle value in the 90% subtitle value.
So that's just below and just above the cut off.
And, for example, we can't have any emails when, of course,
gets to 70%.
Subtitles that are advertising.
The course is saying it's coming soon because that could
affect the enrollments that we're getting and bias our
estimate of the relationship between, of course, crossing the
80% thresholds.
And so how do we check for whether this confounding
discontinuities or not?
What we can do is we can run placebo tests where we run our
regression discontinuity design at points other than the cut
off and check for no effect.
And so, in our example, our regression discontinuity cut off.
Was it 80% And so to check their placebo tests and for
confounding discontinuities, we can run the regression,
discontinuity and other subtitle thresholds like 20% 30% and
40% and then we shouldn't see any significant impact at those
levels, and that allows us to have more confidence that the
causal impact we're measuring is really due to the, um you
know, coefficient of interest here.
In which case it's the percent of, of course, that's
subtitled whether subtitles are available or not in a course,
and so that's all there is to a regression discontinuity.
So I encourage you to go to the coding section to actually
practice fitting a regression discontinuity design to
simulated data set.